last month the un's top court ordered
Israel to take provisional measures to
prevent acts of genocide in Gaza since
then there have been growing calls in
some countries to stop weapons exports
to Israel the UN has said countries
supplying arms to Israel could be
complicit in violations of international
law for almost 5 months Israeli troops
have battled Palestinian militants
across the Gaza
Strip the war has taken a heavy toll on
civilians in the territory leading to
International accusations that Israel's
not doing enough to prevent civilian
harm and high-profile calls for arms
exports to Israel to stop how many times
have you heard the most prominent
leaders and foreign minister around the
world saying too many people are being
killed President Biden said this is too
much on the
top it's not proportional
well if you believe that too many people
are being
killed maybe you should provide less
arms Israel is one of the world's
leading arms
producers but it's also dependent on
imports from abroad especially from the
US and
Germany according to the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute
67% of Israel's Imports of major weapons
came from the US from 2013 to 2022 28%
from Germany and 5% from Italy the US
does not publish details on its military
aid to Israel but media Reports say it
has supplied tens of thousands of
weapons since the October 7th terrorist
attack including bunker busting bombs
and precision guided
Munitions in 2022 Germany approved the
sale of 32.3 million EUR worth of
Defense equipment to Israel that figure
Rose tenfold in 2023 to
326.50 million e most of the permits
were granted after October 7th and
included portable anti-tank weapons and
ammunition I make concerns that
supplying weapons for the war in Gaza
May violate International humanitarian
law Italy and Spain say they have halted
all arms exports to
Israel and in mid-February a court in
the Netherlands ordered the Dutch
government to block exports of F35
fighter jet parts to Israel following a
case brought by human rights
groups Israel has rejected calls for an
arms embargo saying it's fighting the
war in Gaza in self-defense and in
accordance with international
law well let's get more on that topic
from Marina Miran she's a defense
analyst with the war studies department
at King's College London Marina how
Reliant is Israel on foreign
arms
good morning Gard what we have to
understand in the Israeli case that it
has always been reliant on external
specifically the US support uh the
United States has been supporting Israel
economically and militarily since the
creation of the state of Israel in
1948 meaning that um the US has spent
about 300 billion in the entire period
providing Israel with arms and economic
help however arms have been a major part
of it therefore any withdrawal from this
help from this aid from the United
States especially would mean that Israel
will lose its defensive capacity and the
United States has pledged to ensure that
Israel can defend itself and this is of
course in the foreign policy interests
in the region for the United States now
the US is far less transparent about the
arms it sends to Israel than for example
what Ukraine gets why is
that well one reason for that could be a
security reason because Israel is
getting very Advanced high technology
whereas Ukraine is getting older
technology that is not critical to US
National Security therefore those
contracts um might not be as transparent
however in some cases we do get to know
what Israel gets because Israel is
always the first to get their hands on a
more advanced military technology
amongst other Middle Eastern countries
such as Saudi Arabia who are also
purchasing military equipment from the
United States so the lack of
transparency in this domain might um
increase the chances that the
adversaries of Israel cannot prepare in
advance for a specific type of weapon
and the other reason might be political
especially given the fact that Israel
has been criticized even prior to the um
October 7th attacks um when it comes to
the use of military force so there is a
political component of that as well
let's uh talk about where Hamas is
getting its weapons it says it's still
firing rockets at Israeli targets where
are these Rockets coming from stockpiles
or are the supply routs still
functioning well there are different
sources for Hamas to get their weapons
from and there are reports of course
that Hezbollah has been supporting Hamas
when it comes to getting their weapons
um there are smuggling routs and um
presumably the tunnel Network and the
connection to Egypt is still functioning
so that Hamas can get their weapons now
since the conflict has started it has
become more difficult however what we
have to remember as well that an
important source of weapons for Hamas is
the Israeli military itself the New York
Times has reported that Hamas managed to
plunder certain Israeli military bases
and uh Hamas can also use unexploded
ordinance in Gaza in order to build
their own missiles and Rockets and this
is a concerning Factor given how much
Israel is firing into Gaza and the fact
that 10% of the ordinance fired fails to
explode Mar they have Kings College
London thank you very
much thank you for for having
me